5 humanoid robots that stole the spotlight at World Robot Conference 2024
From delivery bots to robot chefs, here’s a quick look at the notable humanoids to make an appearance at this year’s world robot conference.
Over 27 different models of humanoid robots were unveiled at the World Robot Conference 2024 held in Beijing, China. The five-day event was aimed at displaying the latest advancements in robotics and reportedly attracted over 169 exhibitors with more than 600 innovative products being showcased.

The annual conference comes amid China’s push to overtake Western rivals like Tesla and dominate the humanoid robot industry. These efforts have also received backing from the Chinese government with a committee led by President Xi Jinping recently drawing up a policy to build “new productive forces” in technology.

Additionally, investments in China’s robotics industry have surpassed over 100 billion yuan over the last 10 years, according to a report by CNBC. From delivery bots to robot chefs, here’s a quick look at a few of the notable humanoids to make an appearance at this year’s world robot conference.

Astribot S1
The Astribot S1 is a humanoid assistant robot developed by Stardust Intelligence. It was first seen carrying out tasks such as folding a shirt and pouring wine into a glass in a demo video that was released by the Chinese startup in April this year. At the conference, the Astribot S1 stationed at the booth was able to demonstrate its calligraphy skills to attendees, according to a report by Global Times.

Wanda
Japanese company UniX AI’s dual-arm humanoid robot on wheels is intended to be used as a home service bot that helps out with household chores such as doing the laundry or cooking breakfast. For instance, Wanda is equipped with stain recognition and multi-motive primitive fusion tech that helps it wash the dishes. Wanda’s cooking skills in the kitchen were reportedly on display at the conference.

Optimus
Meanwhile, Tesla’s flagship Optimus humanoid robot also made an appearance at the world robot conference. However, the model reportedly sat motionless in a glass case as attendees clicked pictures of it. Recently, Elon Musk-owned Tesla began hiring people to wear motion capture suits and virtual reality (VR) headsets in order to train the humanoid.